README.md, before:

# trapdirector
Icingaweb2 module for receiving and handling snmp traps

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/patrickpr/trapdirector.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/patrickpr/trapdirector) [![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/cc87e39440bc434bb5724bece6b5fcbc)](https://www.codacy.com/manual/patrick_34/trapdirector?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=patrickpr/trapdirector&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade) [![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/patrickpr/trapdirector/badges/quality-score.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/patrickpr/trapdirector/?branch=master) [![PSR-2 Style](https://github.styleci.io/repos/164436083/shield)](https://github.styleci.io/repos/164436083)

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/trapdirector/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/trapdirector/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge) 

Projet features : 

-  Receive and handle traps using only net-snmp trapd daemon
-  See all traps received by the system
-  Update icinga services based on rules : host or hostgroups and traps data updates service status.
-  OID decode to human readable name, possible to add mib files via web.

Project status : Stable release 1.0.2

-  Module has been installed and tested on CentOS 7, Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic) and some more.
-  All project feature are working on those systems.	 

Help wanted : 

-  English is not my native language, so grammar & spelling corrections in the docs (and the module !) are VERY welcome : make a pull request or issue or just send me a message
-  If you want to help on this project pull request are welcome !
-  If anyone has some knowledge in Zend framework, I'll happily take advices 

Have a look at : 

-  Installation doc : [Installation](docs/01-install.md)

-  User guide : [Traps](docs/02-userguide.md)
	-  Create rule from existing trapd : [Here](docs/05-traps.md)
	-  Create a rule from scratch : [Here](docs/10-createrule.md)
	-  Mib management : [Here](docs/15-mib.md)

-  Trap receiver logic : [Basic schema](docs/20-receiver-logic.md)

Commit message:

Added API function in description

README.md, after:

# trapdirector
Icingaweb2 module for receiving and handling snmp traps

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/patrickpr/trapdirector.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/patrickpr/trapdirector) [![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/cc87e39440bc434bb5724bece6b5fcbc)](https://www.codacy.com/manual/patrick_34/trapdirector?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=patrickpr/trapdirector&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade) [![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/patrickpr/trapdirector/badges/quality-score.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/patrickpr/trapdirector/?branch=master) [![PSR-2 Style](https://github.styleci.io/repos/164436083/shield)](https://github.styleci.io/repos/164436083)

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/trapdirector/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/trapdirector/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge) 

Projet features : 

-  Receive and handle traps using only net-snmp trapd daemon
-  Update icinga services based on rules fot host or hostgroups : traps data updates service status.
-  See all traps received by the system
-  Write your own evaluation function in PHP for specific traps OID.
-  OID decode to human readable name, possible to add mib files via icingaweb GUI


Project status : Stable release 1.0.2

Module has been installed and tested on CentOS 7, Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic) and some more.

Help wanted : 

-  English is not my native language, so grammar & spelling corrections in the docs (and the module !) are VERY welcome : make a pull request or issue or just send me a message
-  If you want to help on this project pull request are welcome !
-  If anyone has some knowledge in Zend framework, I'll happily take advices 

Have a look at : 

-  Installation doc : [Installation](docs/01-install.md)

-  User guide : [Traps](docs/02-userguide.md)
	-  Create rule from existing trapd : [Here](docs/05-traps.md)
	-  Create a rule from scratch : [Here](docs/10-createrule.md)
	-  Mib management : [Here](docs/15-mib.md)

-  Trap receiver logic : [Basic schema](docs/20-receiver-logic.md)
